- **Only build it ONCE:** If at all possible, you would like to build whatever you need built just once - and have that piece of software be able to handle future needs without a full rewrite.
- **Be INVOLVED:** You would like your developer to consult with you about the best way to achieve your goals, and to inform you about any important design or infrastructure decisions that need to be made. You would like them to do so using the least amount of techno jargon possible. You would also like them to propose sensible recommendations.
- **Set the AGENDA:** You would only like to pay to develop the software you need. Not the software your developer just happens to want to build.
- **Have a ROADMAP:** You would like your developer to give you an honest assessment of how long the project may take, given your anticipated needs and have a roadmap of what milestones should happen when to indicate that the project is on track.
- **Get something that works WELL:** You would like software that is robust and not brittle. You don't want your app or website having a lot of downtime - or strange bugs that your users complain to you about.
- **Get a TESTED solution:** You would like software that has all the proper tests to ensure that it does what it says it's going to do, and to detect bugs that need fixing.
- **Have a useable and maintainable codebase:** You would like your software to be written in a way that any qualified developer can modify without spending a month, scratching their head and pulling out their hair trying to decipher the intentions of the original developer (at your expense). You don't want to have to choose between being stuck with your original developer for support - for all eternity - or paying someone to complain about your original developer.
